# Movies

## Overview
The following dataset was derived from a larger movie dataset - [The Movies Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/rounakbanik/the-movies-dataset?select=movies_metadata.csv). The original contains metadata on over 45,000 movies, as well as 26 million ratings from 270,000 users for all of the movies, which had been collected from [TMDB](https://www.themoviedb.org/) and [GroupLens](https://grouplens.org/) respectively. From this large collection, data on around 12,000 movies from the past 10 years was extracted and stored formatted within three denormalized CSV files (with ',' delimiter and simplified structure without the need for quoting): **Movies.csv**, **Persons.csv** (cast members) and **Ratings.csv** (given to the movies by various users).

## Structure: 

**Movies.csv:** The Movies file contains metadata on over 12,000 different movie titles. The data points included in the file are:
- *MovieID* : An ID that uniquely identifies each movie.
- *OriginalLanguage* : The language of the original movie title, denoted in its [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes) language code equivalent.
  - Format: code-language
- *OriginalTitle* : The title of the movie in its original language.
- *EnglishTitle* : The English equivalent of the original title.
- *Budget* : The amount of money invested into making the movie.
- *Revenue* : The amount of money generated by the movie.
- *Homepage* : A link to the movie's website.
- *Runtime* : The duration of the movie in minutes.
- *ReleaseDate* : The date on which the movie was/will be released.
  - Format : yyyy-mm-dd
- *Genres* : A list of genres that the movie is categorized under.
  - Format : genre1|genre2|...|genreN
- *CastID* : A list of 24 character long IDs, belonging to the movies cast members.
  - Format : castid1|castid2|...|castidN
- *ProductionCompanies* : A list of production companies involved with the movie.
  - Format : company1|company2|...|companyN
- *ProductionCountries* : A list of countries in which the movie was filmed, paired with their [ISO 3166-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_3166_country_codes) country code.
  - Format : code1-country1|code2-country2|...|codeN-countryN
- *SpokenLanguages* : A list of languages spoken in the movie, paired with their [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes) language code.
  - Format : code1-language1|code2-language2|...|codeN-languageN

The following is an excerpt from the **Movies.csv** file, which is representative of the dataset's structure:
```
MovieID,OriginalLanguage,OriginalTitle,EnglishTitle,Budget,Revenue,Homepage,Runtime,ReleaseDate,Genres,CastID,ProductionCompanies,ProductionCountries,SpokenLanguages
136558,en,Kingdom Come,Kingdom Come,,,http://brokenkingdomfilm.com/#/kingdomcome,88,2011-01-01,Comedy,,,,
110428,fr,Camille Claudel 1915,Camille Claudel 1915,3512454,115860,,95,2013-03-13,Drama,,Canal+|Arte France Cinéma|3B Productions|C.R.R.A.V. Nord Pas de Calais|Region PACA,FR-France,fr-Français
62775,fi,Havukka-Ahon Ajattelija,Havukka-Ahon Ajattelija,2225000,,,,2010-01-15,Comedy|Drama,,,,fi-suomi
13477,en,When in Rome,When in Rome,,36699403,,91,2010-01-29,Fantasy|Comedy|Romance,,Krasnoff Foster Productions|Touchstone Pictures|Film Production Consultants,US-United States of America,en-English|it-Italiano
12201,en,Edge of Darkness,Edge of Darkness,80000000,74901339,,117,2010-01-29,Crime|Drama|Mystery|Thriller,,Icon Productions|BBC Films|GK Films|Warner Bros.,GB-United Kingdom|US-United States of America,en-English
37034,zh,Su Qi-Er,True Legend,20000000,,,115,2010-02-09,Action|Fantasy,,Shanghai Film Group|Focus Features|EDKO Film|Edko Management and Consulting,CN-China,zh-普通话
```

**Persons.csv:** The Persons file contains information on the cast members and their characters in the movies. The data points included in the file are:
- *MovieID* : An ID referencing the movie in which the character appeared.
- *CastID* : A 24 character long ID that uniquely identifies each character played by the cast.
- *Name* : The name of the cast member.
- *Gender* : The gender of the cast member (1 = female, 2 = male)
- *Character* : Full name of the movie's character.

The following is an excerpt from the **Persons.csv** file, which is representative of the dataset's structure:
```
MovieID,CastID,Name,Gender,Character
136558,52fe4c18c3a368484e1a6d23,Daniel Gillies,2,Himself
136558,52fe4c18c3a368484e1a6d27,Rachael Leigh Cook,1,Herself
110428,52fe4ad6c3a36847f81e4625,Juliette Binoche,1,Camille Claudel
110428,52fe4ad6c3a36847f81e4629,Jean-Luc Vincent,,Paul Claudel
62775,52fe468dc3a368484e09706f,Kai Lehtinen,2,Konsta Pylkkönen
62775,52fe468dc3a368484e097073,Tommi Korpela,2,maisteri Kronberg
```

**Ratings.csv:** The Ratings file contains information on the ratings given to the movies by different users. The data points included in the file are:
- *UserID* : An ID identifying the user that published the rating.
- *MovieID* : An ID referencing the movie that had been rated.
- *Rating* : The user's rating of the movie made on a 5-star scale, with half-star increments (0.5 stars - 5.0 stars).
- *Timestamp* : Timestamp at which the user's rating was published.

The following is an excerpt from the **Ratings.csv** file, which is representative of the dataset's structure:
```
UserID,MovieID,Rating,Timestamp
1,58559,4.0,1425942007
1,96821,5.0,1425941382
7,58559,5.0,1486253675
7,88744,1.5,1486253974
11,58559,4.5,1231675382
15,49530,3.5,1346002547
```

